Hey everybody, uh welcome back to the
channel. Today we are going to be deep
diving into Cassandra. And this is
specifically going to be through the
lens of a system design interview. And
so I'm going to give you the minimum
amount of information you need in order
to present this information in an
interview, but enough depth such that if
your interviewer probes, you can justify
your decisions accordingly. So we're
going to try to walk that fine line. Now
at a high level before we get started,
Cassandra is a distributed NoSQL
database and it's designed for handling
massive amounts of data across many
different servers without any given
single point of failure. It's their
highle summary. Uh importantly, it was
uh created by Facebook in 2007 by
Avanosh Lockshman. There's your guy
right there. I'll paste him in. And why
is he important? Well, he's important
because he was also the co-creator of
Amazon's Dynamo. And so when designing
Cassandra, they took a ton of
inspiration from both Dynamo and uh
Google's BigQuery. And so if you're
familiar with either of those
technologies, then learning Cassandra
here today is going to be a lot more
straightforward uh because there's tons
of overlap. We also have a video
breakdown of DynamoB. I'll put it in the
description. I'll try to put it in one
of the corners if I can figure out how
to do that. And so feel free to give
that video or that written breakdown uh
a read as well. Now, Cassandra was
created specifically to solve uh the
Facebook inbox messaging system. And so
they needed a database that could handle
massive amounts of write throughput for
millions of users sending billions of
messages in total every single day. And
it needed to be able to scale
horizontally, right, without manually
sharding. It needed to be able to
provide tons of availability with zero
downtime. And it needed to deliver these
super low latencies reads and writes
globally. And so that was the
motivation. Now, in contrast to
relational databases, which I'm going to
assume throughout this video most of you
have some basic familiarity with,
Cassandra was designed to give up on
flexibility in querying. So, there
aren't things like joins or strong
consistency. But in exchange, we get
three main things that every massive
system needs. You can see them at the
bottom of your screen. Highly scalable,
highly available in this fault
tolerance. And so, as we go through this
video, we're going to talk about exactly
how Cassandra achieves each of those
things. And at the end, I'll tell you uh
exactly how you should decide whether or
not it makes sense to use Cassandra in
your system design interview or not. So
without further ado, let's get after it.
Now that we know why Cassandra exists,
let's talk a little bit about how it
actually organizes data. And so the
Cassandra data model looks a little
different from relational databases, but
there are still plenty of similarities
that you can anchor to. Starting with
the very top, we have what's called a
keyspace. Now you can think of a
keyspace just like a database in
Postgress or MySQL. It's simply a
logical container that holds your tables
and defines some global settings. These
are things like how data should be
replicated across the cluster or how
many copies of that data should be
maintained. Now within each keyace you
have what are called tables and a table
defines the schema. This would be the
the columns, the data types that can be
stored. But importantly, unlike
relational databases, Cassandra tables
are actually flexible, meaning they
don't require that every single row has
the exact same set of columns. And
that's, as I said, really important.
I'll get more into that in just a
moment. But within tables, you have
rows. Each row represents a single
record in the table, and it's identified
by something called a primary key. We'll
come back to how exactly these keys work
in just a moment, but just know that
rows can hold large sets of data, and
they're grouped together for efficient
access. And then within each row you
have columns. This is the actual pieces
of data. And so columns have a name, a
type, and a value. Like in this case,
the name uh is name, the type is string,
and the value is Evan. And as I
mentioned before, what makes Cassandra
interesting is that it's a wide column
store. If you've ever heard that
terminology, wide column store, it just
means that you can have completely
different sets of columns within the
within different rows of the same table.
And so in this case, we have user 101
who has just three columns, name, email,
and age spelled incorrectly, I see. Uh
and then we have a second user here who
actually has an additional column, an
address. And this is fine. Whereas in a
SQL database, you would need to define
this rigid schema and everybody would
need to have an address. Even if that
address was null, they would need to
have a column for address. That's not
the case here. We started off by talking
about how Cassandra was built with three
particular things in mind. Scalability,
availability, and fault tolerance. So
let's talk about how it achieves each of
these three. Starting with scalability.
when you're dealing with millions in
some cases even billions of rows that a
single machine a single server can't
possibly handle all of that data and so
in order to scale Cassandra distributes
that data across many nodes in the
cluster so that each node stores just a
fraction of the total data set right so
in this case maybe a fourth of the data
ends up on node one a fourth of the data
ends up on node two and so on uh this
horizontal scaling approach I'm sure
that's a terminology you all are
familiar with this isn't unique to
Cassandra It's how all distributed
databases work of course. But once you
distribute your data in this way, once
you split the data across multiple
nodes, then you have a critical question
that needs to be answered. Which node
should store this particular piece of
data? And this is where that partition
key comes in. So when you're defining a
table in Cassandra, let me scroll down
here to it. When you're defining a table
in Cassandra, you specify what's called
a primary key. And that primary key is
made up of two parts. a partition key
and optionally a clustering key. Now, if
you know anything about Dynamo or you
watched our Dynamo video, then this is
all very familiar to you. Dynamo is the
same. It's partition key and then we
just call the clustering key a sort key
instead. But the partition key
importantly determines where data lives.
So all rows with the same partition key
are grouped together and end up on the
same node. Okay. The clustering key on
the other hand determines how data is
ordered inside of that partition. So
summary, partition key decides where the
data actually lives in the cluster and
the clustering key decides how it's
organized once it's there. So this makes
the most sense when we have an example
here. You'll see this statement here in
order to create a new table for user
messages in Cassandra. We define our
primary key which is made up of the
partition key and the clustering key. In
our case, we've chosen our partition key
importantly to be the user ID. This
means that all users or all messages,
excuse me, from a given user are going
to show up on the same node. This is
important because if your query pattern
was to say fetch all messages from a
given user, then now you'd only have to
hit a single node as opposed to having
to query a bunch of different nodes and
then merging or combining that data
together at the end. And so if we scroll
down and we look at this example, if
we've uh partition key as user ID, then
all the users with the ID 0 to 10,000, I
made up random numbers here. Just know
it would be some fixed range are going
to show up on node one, 10k to 20k on
node 2 and so on. Now we have a way to
decide what to partition by. But how
does it actually map those partitions to
the specific nodes? Now the simplest
approach would be to use a hash plus a
modulo. And so you can take the user ID.
In our case, user ID was the partition
key, right? So, take whatever value
you're partitioning by. Hash it and then
mod it by the number of nodes you have
in the in your system. This is going to
return a number of either 0 1 or two so
that you can know which one of these
nodes it should live on. Right? So,
concrete example, if our user ID was 1 2
3 4 and we hashed that and we got some
value like this. This is a madeup value
of course, but maybe you would use a
hash function like MD5. And then if we
took the modulo of that, modded it by
three, then we end up with two. And so
we know that this goes on node two. This
partition should go on node two. This
works, but it falls apart at scale, of
course. And the reason for that is
pretty straightforward and shown via
this diagram here. If you end up adding
or removing a node, then the number of
nodes changes, which means that nearly
every key gets remapped to a new node.
And so in a larger cluster, this would
mean that you're shuffling terabytes of
data around every single time you need
to scale up and down. And so you can
look at some of these simple examples.
If all of a sudden we are now modding by
four instead of three because we added a
new node to the system, then everything
that was previously on two probably
shows up somewhere else now, right? And
so as a result, we got to move all the
data around. Uh and this is a lot of
work. And so to solve this, Cassandra
uses what's called consistent hashing.
And if you've been uh watching any of
our content, if you know if you know
anything about distributed systems, you
probably knew this was coming, right?
But instead of using a modulo,
consistent hashing is actually a really
simple concept. It just arranges all of
the possible possible hash values in a
ring. Of course, this is just a virtual
ring, right? But each node owns one or
more ranges of that ring. And so when a
key is hashed, in this case, we can hash
whatever our user ID was. Maybe we get
the value 16. Then we find that value on
our virtual ring and we walk clockwise
until we find the first node and that's
where that data should live. And so by
using consistent hashing, this design
keeps data evenly distributed and it
minimizes movement when a node joins or
leaves. And so if database 2 ended up
leaving now, then everything between
zero and in our case 25 here is going to
end up on database 3. But database 4 and
database one didn't change at all.
Right? This is how we achieve that
horizontal scaling. We can add and
remove nodes without disrupting the
cluster or redistributing everything.
Now, importantly, this is a very high
level overview of consistent hashing.
Consistent hashing has what's called
virtual nodes which make this
redistribution more even. If you want to
know more about consistent hashing, we
have a quick video on it. I'll link it
in the description so you can go check
that out as well. Partitioning with
consistent hashing explains how
Cassandra is able to scale by
determining where the data actually
lives. But how do we ensure that we're
always available and fault tolerant? The
first thing that we need to consider is
replication. Every single piece of data
needs to be written to multiple nodes.
And this is controlled by something
called the replication factor in
Cassandra where that replication factor
is a setting that is set at the keyspace
level. So for example, if your
replication factor was set to three,
then Cassandra keeps three copies of
each partition on different nodes across
across the cluster. And so maybe the
original data hashes to node two, but
we're also going to write it to node
three and node 4 just to make sure that
we have replicas or backups in case
every anything happens. Uh these
replicas are also they're placed
strategically on different parts of the
hash ring oftent times even across
different racks and across different
data centers. So there's a configuration
which I can't remember off the top of my
head but it's in the linked written
article um which actually allows you to
have your replication factor explicitly
specify that replicas need to be on
different racks or different data
centers if you are in uh a global setup.
This way, of course, if one node goes
down, then the others can immediately
just start serving those reads and
writes. And if we lose data, but or if
we lose a node and it comes back up,
then it can just learn from the uh from
the nodes that stayed online how it
should kind of catch up and repair its
data so that it fits back into the
cluster and starts operating again
effectively. Unlike with many other
databases, with Cassandra, there isn't a
single leader or primary node. And this
is pretty interesting. every single
replica is equal and any node can accept
any given request. But if there's no
single leader, how do all nodes end up
coordinating? That's usually the role of
the leader in the system. Like how do
you know who owns what, who's alive,
who's dead, um when things are added to
the cluster, how do we know something
was added, when something's removed, how
do we know? Well, Cassandra handles all
of this through something called the
gossip protocol. And so every node in
the cluster is equal. Like I said,
there's no master, there's no central
coordinator, and each node randomly
talks to a few other nodes every other
second, exchanging small bits of
information. And so this is small bits
of information like which nodes are up,
which nodes are down, what data ranges
they own, what schemas they should be
using, etc. And so every few seconds,
they ping these messages to each other.
And if you ping it to just a couple
nodes in the network and then that node
pings it to a couple other nodes in the
network then eventually all nodes in the
network agree on some consistent state.
Right? Over time that information
spreads just like a gossip uh in real
life and then everybody has that updated
consistent view of the cluster. So this
peer-to-peer design means that it's
fully self-managing and you can add and
remove nodes and the gossip will just
automatically update the cluster state.
Obviously this is a sufficient
simplification um but certainly for the
for an interview's purpose this is more
than enough information but this is how
we avoid things like zookeeper or etc
um which are used in many other popular
distributed systems in order to be that
that central source of truth. But the
benefit is that there's now no single
point of failure for cluster
coordination. So if you've ever dealt
with for example a zookeeper outage uh
which would bring down your entire
system then you know just how valuable
it is to not have that single point of
failure anymore. Now that we've
introduced replication and we've also
introduced that gossip pro protocol for
nodes to be able to communicate in this
distributed network. Something really
interesting comes up and that's that
we've created multiple copies of the
same data which means that those copies
could temporarily disagree with each
other. So imagine that you have a
replication factor of three. You have
three different nodes. You then write an
update to your username. My username
changes from Evan to Evan123. Well, if
that write lands on one node and then
gets propagated to two of the replicas,
then there is a moment in time there
where somebody could read from one of
the replicas and still read Evan as
opposed to Evan 123. And the question
that always comes up in a system design
interview is that is that okay? Right?
This is the topic of cap theorem. So cap
theorem as a reminder says that in a
distributed system whenever a network
partition occurs right a network
partition here of course just means when
some nodes can't talk to each other over
the network then you have to choose
between two guarantees. Guarantee one
would be consistency. This means that
every single read returns the latest
data which was not the case in the
example I just gave. Guarantee two would
be availability which would be that the
system keeps accepting reads and writes.
Right? This is the option that we chose
in that example. And so you have to
choose one of these either strong
consistency or high availability. There
is no both answer necessarily. And so
Cassandra of course was designed to stay
online no matter what. We talked about
how the core of Cassandra is
scalability, high availability and fall
tolerance. So it of course prioritizes
availability and partition tolerance. If
a few replicas are unreachable, it still
accepts rights and synchronizes them
later. That's why Cassandra is described
as an AP system, availability and
partition tolerance. But here's the cool
part and if you are in a system design
interview and you kind of bring up this
nuance, it's it's the sort of things
that interviewers sometimes love to hear
and that's that Cassandra doesn't
actually force you to pick one side
consistency or availability forever. It
lets you tune it actually per query.
This is with tunable consistency, right?
And so every single read and write that
you issue to Cassandra, you can specify
a consistency level. This is how many
replicas must respond before the
operation is considered successful. And
you have three different settings here.
The first is option one. This is the one
that aligns with high availability. And
this is we wait for just one replica to
respond. And so if our partition is
replica is replicated on three different
nodes, then we only need one of those to
respond. when we write a right, one of
them can take it, tell us that it got
it, and then we're good to go. And so
this is of course the fastest, but it
has weak consistency because this is the
example that we opened with. You could
still read stale data from one of those
nodes that hasn't yet accepted that,
right? The second is quorum. This is the
middle ground and oftent times actually
the most popular and this is that it's
just going to wait for a majority of the
replicas. And so if you had five
replicas in your system, a replication
factor of five, the majority would be
three. And so if you issue a write, it's
going to wait until three of those nodes
have responded saying, "Hey, I got the
right down." And at that point, it'll
respond to the user saying, "Write
confirmed." Right? And then the last one
is all. This is where we wait for every
single replica. And so this is for
strong consistency. Uh so in the case
where we need that consistency, we want
to make Cassandra a CP system consistent
and partition tolerant, then we would
use the setting all. We're going to wait
for all replicas to confirm that they
got the right. So with one you maximize
speed and availability but you risk
reading outdated data. With all you get
strong consistency but if any replica
has an issue uh like a network problem a
hardware failure whatever it may be then
your request can't complete and so most
production systems end up using quorum
which is that sweet spot or that middle
ground. Before I move on and I tell you
what happens on each write and read
request respectively. Let's just check
in and recap what we've discussed so
far. We started with the data model and
then we learned that partitioning and
consistent hashing is what allows
Cassander to scale. That replication
gives it the ability or excuse me gives
it availability and fault tolerance.
That gossip and the leaderless design
keep the cluster decentralized and
self-healing. And then a tunable
consistency lets you control how it
balances correctness and uptime per each
request.
Really quick before we continue, let me
tell you a little bit about the most
popular feature on hello.com, guided
practice. It's an interactive tool that
lets you practice system design
interview step by step using that hello
interview delivery framework. You're
going to walk through everything from
the non-functional requirements to the
core entities, API routes all the way
through to your highle design and deep
dives, drawing on the whiteboard, and
narrating your response. all while
getting real-time feedback on what
you're doing well and where you can
improve by a model that Stephan and I
have spent hundreds of hours tuning.
We've expanded the library to 25 of the
most common system design interview
questions now and we're constantly
adding more. So candidates absolutely
love this feature. I think you will too.
Check it out at hello.com. Link will be
in the description. Okay, let's talk
about the write path and the read path
respectively. So what exactly happens
when a client wants to write data or
read data from Cassandra? Starting with
writes. When the client wants to send
data to Cassandra to write to the
database, it contacts first any node in
the cluster. This is actually really
interesting. This is different than most
databases where they have that central
coordinator, right? Remember, we don't
have that in Cassandra. So, you contact
any node in the cluster and that node
becomes the coordinator for that
particular request. And so, that
coordinator figures out which nodes own
that particular partition key and it
forwards the right requests to those
replicas in parallel. So of course it
has all of its internal memory based on
the gossip messages that it's been
receiving to know the full landscape of
the cluster. So when the request comes
in it can send it to the right replicas
to be able to service that request. And
that's where this diagram enters. This
diagram here on the right is a single
clustered a single Cassandra
node. Okay. And so when that write comes
in we end up writing that data in
parallel to two different places. We
write it to one the commit log. This is
just a write ahead log. The write is
first appended immediately to disk. Note
that this is on disk. This is to
guarantee that durability. If things
were to shut down, we were to lose the
node, we had to bring it back online.
Then it's important that the very first
thing that we did is we persisted that
write to disk. Right? At about the same
time, we're also going to write it into
memory into what is called the mem
table. And so the mem table, you can
think of it just like a sorted map of
recently written rows. It keeps
everything in order by the partition key
and the clustering key. And it's fully
in memory. It's it's in RAM. Okay, so
this guy's nice and quick and fast. So
that makes that write easy and fast. And
then periodically, and this is
asynchronous, right? So once it's
written to the mem table into the commit
log, then we return uh back to the
client saying acknowledged we've
received that right. But then
asynchronously as the mem table fills
up, it's flushed to disk uh into an
immutable file that we call the SS
table. This is sorted string table. And
so SS tables are append only. They're
never updated in place. And so instead,
new writes create new SS tables and the
old ones are merged later through a
process called compaction. And so I'm
not going to go into a bunch of detail
here, but it is a little bit
interesting, though not relevant for a
system design interview probably. Um,
but in a SQL database, you actually
change the row. You change the
particular data. If you want to update
your name, then you find that row on
disk and you update name to Evan123 from
Evan. In the case of Cassandra, you
never make those updates. You just flush
this new mem table. So, you have new
data. You have a new row that says
Evan's name is now Evan123.
Uh, and that means that um, you know,
every once in a while what ends up
happening is this compaction process
which goes through and compacts all of
those old rows to say definitively Evans
is one 123 now. So you don't have to go
read all of the previous updates in
order to know the current state. I'm
just going to tell you the current state
because I've compacted all of those
updates to make reads faster. So
hopefully that makes more sense that I
don't want to go, like I said, into too
much detail there. Um but then finally
when enough replicas have acknowledged
the right again based on that chosen
consistency level which we discussed a
moment ago then the coordinator can
reply to the client um and say you know
we've accepted this right everything is
good to go at this point um but this is
what makes importantly Cassandra's
rights so fast there sequential disk
appends in an in-memory insert there's
no random IO there's no finding the
right place in a table there's no locks
there's no coordination overhead all of
these things that exist in SQL tables
don't happen here. We simply write to
memory super fast and we append to the
end um of a log on disk, an appendon
log. Now reads are just a tiny bit more
involved. It starts off the same. The
client again contacts any node which is
going to act as the coordinator. That
node then knows which replicas hold the
partition and queries them again in
parallel based on the requested
consistency level. But then each replica
and again this is where we jump into
this diagram here, right? So then each
diagram checks two places. It first has
to check the mem table in case it hasn't
yet been flushed to disk. So it's going
to check there first for any unflushed
writes. Then it's going to check the SS
table on disk. And so if it were to just
check the SS table on disk, it would
have to scan through every single row
and try to find the thing that it's
looking for. And this of course would be
incredibly slow. This is the consequence
of the fact that we have this appendon
log in order to make writes fast. Well,
on the other side, it makes reads
slower. And so Cassandra has some fancy
things that I'm not going to go into too
much detail on, but it has some
additional files in here. One of which
is a bloom filter and as well as some
indexes that allow you to skip files
that don't contain the partition that
you're after. And so some bloom filters,
some indexes makes this read a little
bit quicker so that we don't have to
scan every single row. A bit more in
that in the written guide which is
linked below. Um, but that's how this
ends up working. So you look first in
the mem table, then in the SS table,
then you respond back to the
coordinator. And the coordinator takes
the results of all of the replicas and
merges them together and it picks the
newest value using the timestamp of the
right. So whichever one is the newest,
that's the one I'm going to send back to
the user. But if the replicas disagree,
then the coordinator needs to perform a
read repair in the background to
synchronize them. So there's these rare
cases where maybe they were written at
the same time but they have different
values and then we need to figure out
what the heck happened. Um but in short
it's this combination of this in-memory
caching this immutable disk file these
timestamp based reconciliations. These
are the things that give give Cassandra
these beautiful properties of really
fast writes that eventual consistency
and high availability. Um and it's what
makes Cassandra so great for these
really high right throughput scenarios.
All right. Now, before we wrap up, I
want to talk a little bit about data
modeling in Cassandra because of just
how important it is to a system design
interview. And that's that when you're
designing systems that are going to end
up using Cassandra, you need to model
your data in a way that's going to take
advantage of the architecture that we've
been discussing throughout the video.
Now, if you're coming from a relational
database world, then this is going to
feel a little bit backwards to you at
first. So, let me try to explain. With
relational databases, you normalize your
data like you see on the left here. And
so you store each entity once usually in
its own table. And then we use foreign
keys in order to create relationships.
And we can use joins to query across
different tables, right? And so the
relational data modeling is what we
refer to as entity driven. Meaning you
think first about entities and their
relationships, posts and users. So in
this example, we of course have the post
table here. We have the user table. And
if you wanted to query for all posts and
their users, then you would query the
post table join it on user ID based on
the foreign key here in the post table
to the user ID. But this ensures that
even if we have a post with the same
user twice, it they both still reference
the same row in another table, right?
That's the normalization.
But in Cassandra, we don't have foreign
keys, remember? And we don't have joins
and we don't even support queries across
multiple tables. And so normalization
actually works against you. Instead,
data modeling in Cassandra is what we
call querydriven. Maybe I should even
write these down. So query driven for
Cassandra and then this was entity
driven, right? Um and so it's query
driven. So you start by asking what
queries does this application actually
need in order to run? And then you
design your table specifically to answer
those queries efficiently. So map your
query directly to your table. And this
means that you'll often have to
denormalize your data, which leads to
data duplication in order to make sure
that each of those different queries are
are as optimized as they could be. And
yes, this creates redundancy. That is
the trade-off. And that's a trade-off
maybe worth discussing in your interview
as well. But in Cassandra, the argument
would be storage is cheap, duplication
is fine, but slow queries will end up
killing you. So you can't do that. And
so in this case you see that we have a
single post table but now we've
denormalized and we've put the user data
uh in this same table so that if I want
to query in order to get all posts and
their users it's a single query to this
table. It's fast and it's efficient. You
can see that we've stored I guess this
is actually not the I don't know why
that was Jane. There you go. Now it's
John. We've stored John twice here. We
have his information twice here and
that's the data redundancy.
So system design interview. If you're
saying you're going to use Cassandra,
but then you design normalized tables
like you would in Postgress, it can be a
bit of a red flag to your interviewer.
It shows that you don't actually
understand how Cassandra works. And so
be careful. Be sure that you demonstrate
that you're thinking about the access
patterns in this querydriven design.
Let's answer the question that I know is
most important to you guys, and that's
when should you actually consider using
Cassandra in your system design
interview? Well, I've broken it down
here to try to be as simple as possible.
And that's that you're going to want to
consider using Cassandra when you have
really high write throughput. And we're
going to describe really high right
throughput as something over a 100,000
writes per second. Now, this means that
you're going to have far more writes
than you're going to have reads. And it
makes it a good candidate. And
importantly, you should have predictable
limited query patterns. So, there's a
handful of common queries that you're
going to run which are predictable. you
know, it's just going to be those
handful of queries. Things like get all
posts for a user, right? That's going to
be your main use case potentially. Think
Cassandra is a great fit. These are
things like activity feeds, time series
data, messaging systems, maybe event
logging use cases, use cases where the
rights are dominated and you know
exactly where you're going to end up
querying for the data. You can just
denormalize across a few tables and each
one is going to be optimized for that
specific pattern. Then Cassandra will
scale beautifully and everything will
work great. Importantly, there are
places where you don't want to use
Cassandra, where it wouldn't make sense
to recommend Cassandra. And that should
be any place of course where you need
flexible querying things like ad hoc
analytics, complex aggregations, if you
have joins across tables, Cassandra just
doesn't support these things and so it's
not the right fit. And then critically,
even though Cassandra has some simple
support for lightweight transactions,
these are transactions always within the
same partition, it doesn't support any
cross table consistency and certainly
not cross partition consistency. And so
uh it doesn't have transactions that
you're used to in an asset database that
can span these multiple tables. And if
you need to write to three denormalized
tables and one write fails, then you're
left with inconsistent data across those
tables. And so if you need strong
consistency, if this is a financial app
or a ticketing app or things like this,
Cassandra probably doesn't make sense
for that use case. Great. So we covered
a lot in a short period of time.
Hopefully you guys found it valuable.
Just to conclude, I want to summarize
what we discussed and that's this
simple. Remember that Cassandra is
scalable, highly available, and fault
tolerant. It's great for high rate
throughput apps with a few simple query
patterns. And when you're using it,
remember to consider your partition key.
This is where the data lives. Your
clustering key. This is how it's sorted
on each partition. And then
denormalization. What data needs to be
duplicated in order to support all of
your simple query patterns. With that,
please leave a comment. Let me know if
you have any questions. Let me know if I
got anything wrong. uh like, subscribe,
all of those good things. We're going to
continue to try to post one video
roughly every two weeks. Um I'll have my
LinkedIn down in the description. Feel
free to follow, shoot me a message.
Always love to connect with you guys
offline as well. And most importantly,
best of luck with your upcoming
interviews.